Okay, this is
Cocoa Development Using Scripting.
Thank you all for coming.
Actually, it's fairly impressive.
I've never seen a room this
full before for one of my style.
I'm Chris Nebel.
I'm one of the engineers who
makes all this stuff work.
And yes, that is what it says
on my business cards.
So if you think of Mac OS code,
Mac OS development as
like a big metro area,
say San Francisco,
Then Cocoa, the system frameworks,
those are city center, downtown.
This is the hub of all the development.
This is where you go when you want
the system to do something for you.
Client code, then,
stuff like your applications,
is distributed around the outlying areas.
Now, if you're writing in Objective-C,
then you're just a bit further
south down the peninsula,
like Daly City or somewhere.
Getting to Cocoa from here,
you need the system to
do something for you,
you commute in, you get what you need,
you come back.
Getting to Cocoa from
Objective-C is trivial.
You just stroll across the border,
which you probably won't even
notice there is a border.
But there are other
interesting areas too,
with other interesting things in them.
We've got other scripting languages,
we've got interesting services which
are not strictly part of Cocoa.
How do you get to these things?
This isn't just a matter of walking.
So the answer in real life, of course,
is you build bridges.
And that is the answer in
the code world as well,
except that our bridges are
made out of Objective-C.
So we'll spend some time talking
about what you can do with a bridge,
how to use Cocoa from
a scripting language,
and how to use scriptable
applications from Cocoa.
And we'll talk a bit about
exactly how the bridge works,
how you can build one of these things.
So first off, bridging two languages.
So you want to write
a Mac OS application.
You've got great idea, new killer app.
The basics of what you need.
First off, use Cocoa.
Cocoa is the system
framework on Mac OS X.
This is where we put
all of our good stuff.
There's lots and lots of stuff in here.
AppKit for doing all your UI, core data,
core animation.
The list just goes on and on.
Awesome tools to go with it.
There's Xcode, Interface Builder,
Instruments.
[Transcript missing]
You know,
there are various reasons for this.
Maybe you've got some big
hunk of pre-existing code,
some other language you don't
want to mess with rewriting this.
Maybe you're using some
specialized framework that doesn't
have an equivalent in Cocoa,
like Twisted for Python.
Maybe, you know,
you just prefer something else, okay?
That's okay.
The first thing to realize
is that Cocoa is not the
same thing as Objective-C.
Cocoa is a framework.
Objective-C is a language.
You can pull those two apart.
The tricky bit is that
Objective-C is not just a language.
It's a syntax and it's a runtime,
and you can pull those apart, too.
If you can call the runtime,
then you can get to any
Objective-C service,
which means you can get to Cocoa.
And the runtime has a straight C API.
So anything that can
call plain C functions,
which is just about everything,
can call the runtime and
therefore get through to Cocoa.
And this is where a
Cocoa bridge comes in.
A Cocoa bridge handles all the
grunt work of calling the runtime
and translating data back and forth
from Cocoa to wherever it is you
are actually interested in being.
So there are Cocoa bridges
for a variety of languages,
and now we'll take a look at a few.
And we're going to take kind of
a Rosetta Stone approach to this,
using Currency Converter.
If you haven't seen this before,
Currency Converter is
the basic introduction to
Cocoa tutorial application.
So we're going to look
at some of the code.
And this is what it looks
like in Objective-C.
This is part of it anyway.
This is the controller class.
One of Cocoa's key concepts is
model-view-controller separation.
Model is what your
application actually does.
View is what it looks like on screen,
Windows and whatnot.
And controllers mediate between the two.
So this is the Objective-C code
for the controller class.
So we'll compare what this
looks like in various languages.
Again, this is Objective-C.
And the three particular
things to notice here are,
one, the class declaration.
This being C-based,
it's split into an interface
part and an implementation part.
Those would go in separate
files in Objective-C.
In the interface part,
there are declarations for
three instance variables,
IB outlets.
These will get connected to
text fields in the interface.
So you can see the text fields from code.
And the third bit is the action method.
This gets called when
we press the button,
and this handles the work of getting
the information out of the text fields.
That's the second and third lines.
Does the conversion and then puts
the result back into the third field.
And you might be looking at that
convert amount bit and thinking,
"Why on earth is he creating an
entire object just to multiply
two numbers?" Because that's
really all this is going to do.
This is model-view-controller
separation going on.
Yes, it's trivial.
Yes, it's a bit silly at this size,
but it shows separating out the models.
So that's how the tutorial is written.
So first off, let's look at Python.
How does this look in Python?
The bridge for Python is
originally called PyObjc.
It's quite old.
It actually predates Mac OS X.
In these days, it's built into Leopard.
It's got full Xcode and
Interface Builder support.
There are project templates in Xcode.
Xcode knows how to do syntax
coloring and code folding,
etc.
Interface Builder knows how
to read Python files so it
can auto-fill fields for you.
There are lots of examples
and developer examples.
This is what the code looks like.
Three bits here.
Here's the class declaration.
Pretty straightforward.
It inherits from NSObject.
Here are our three instance variables.
The objc_ivar is just a bit of
magic to let the Python interpreter
know that these need to be
hooked up to Objective-C.
And finally, the convert method.
So again, get two values,
do the conversion, put it back.
Pretty much like the Objective-C version,
but with a little less
memory management going on.
Next, Ruby.
The bridge here is called RubyCocoa.
It's available as open
source back to Panther.
Again,
it's built into Leopard these days.
full Xcode and interface builder support,
all the good stuff, lots of examples.
And the code, again,
looks pretty much the same.
There's just syntactic differences
thanks to working in Ruby now.
Here is the class definition.
Here are the three IB outlet
instance variables.
And our convert action, again,
the same four lines.
And finally, we have AppleScript.
This is called AppleScript Studio.
It's created back in Panther.
[Transcript missing]
And the reason for this is
that Studio just works kind of
differently from all the others.
And that actually causes
a bunch of problems.
The basic point is that
Studio bridges directly to AppKit.
It doesn't really go
through Objective-C at all.
There's a lot of things that
are just different in Studio.
There's a dedicated palette for
Studio in Interface Builder.
It's only used for Studio.
When you're using Studio,
you ignore three other panes in Interface
Builder that you would ordinarily use.
You, like I mentioned before,
you refer to controls using the
UI hierarchy instead of using outlets.
That's kind of a serious problem
because it means that when
you reorganize your interface,
if you put a control inside a box,
your hierarchy is changed and now
your code needs to change as well.
You don't have that problem
in the other languages.
Actions are referred to not using
target action like you normally do,
but instead using fixed names that
describe the particular action,
such as "clicked" or "on scroll
wheel," something like that.
It goes further, too.
There's no KVC support,
which means you fundamentally
can't use outlets.
And you also can't use Cocoa bindings,
which is a really useful feature
that lets you save quite a
bit of code in some cases.
And perhaps most problematic of all,
there's custom glue required
for every class that you want
to write in AppleScript Studio.
And we have to provide that glue.
So what's available in
AppleScript Studio always
lags behind what's available
to the rest of the system.
To deal with all this,
we are adding something
new in Snow Leopard.
We are taking a big step sideways.
and introducing a bridge that
we're calling internally,
at least, AppleScript Objective-C.
It's just another Cocoa bridge.
It will be built into Snow Leopard.
This is a true Objective-C bridge
like the others for Python and Ruby,
which means that the usual
Objective-C techniques just work.
You use normal interface builder,
you use outlets, you use bindings.
Everything is exactly the same as
it is in all the other languages.
It's exact parity.
All the normal
Cocoa techniques just work.
Now, to show this off, I'd like to get
Barry Langdon-Lassagne up here.
And we will run through
Currency Converter and a few
other things in AppleScript.
So if we can switch over
to the demo machine,
please.
Hi, Chris.
Good afternoon, everybody.
That's not what shows
up on my business card.
So all of the examples and sample
code we're going to show you,
this will all work on the version
of Snow Leopard that you guys
were seated with this week.
But I'm not sure if the examples
have been uploaded yet to
the website for this session.
Real soon now.
Real soon now, yes.
So sometime this week,
if they're not already up there.
Okay, so we're going to continue
on with Currency Converter.
So if we open the project here,
there we go, and open the script,
we can see what this looks like.
So the first thing up at the
top is that mystery model class,
the MyConverter that
we were seeing before.
This implementation
should surprise nobody.
It just multiplies the two numbers.
The part we're really looking
at is the controller class.
And now this looks a lot more
like what we were seeing before,
a lot more like the Objective-C version.
There is ScriptMyController,
an AppleScript script object appears as a
class as far as Objective-C is concerned.
We've got our three properties,
instance variables.
These are simply initialized
to missing value,
which is AppleScript's equivalent of nil.
And finally, we have our convert action,
which is now called convert again,
and again, the same four lines.
And if we look at a little
more detail at some of these,
take the first line,
a simple assignment in AppleScript.
And in particular,
look at what it's assigning to,
RateField's float value.
RateField is a reference
to an Objective-C object,
and it's going to send it
the float value message.
And that is simply the
Objective-C selector name,
float value.
And because it's just the regular
Objective-C selector name,
we can just option double click on
it and get the documentation for it.
We're actually using
the NS Control version.
Read all about it.
Lovely.
There it is.
And to compare, like I said,
it's the selector name.
If we look at the last line,
set float value, you'll notice it's set
float value underscore.
In Objective-C, the selector name would
have colons in it,
but colons aren't legal in AppleScript,
so they get turned into
underscores instead.
This is the same heuristic that
the Ruby and Python bridges use.
You take the selector name,
turn the colons into underscores.
That becomes the function name and the
parameters appear inside parentheses.
[Transcript missing]
So that's the code,
which again looks very much like
the Objective-C code and like the
Python code and like the Ruby code.
Now we have to hook it
up in Interface Builder.
We've got the interface
already laid out here,
and we've got an instance of my
controller already in the Nib.
We need to actually connect
this to the interface fields.
So if you pop up the
Connection Inspector,
this is one of my
favorite features in IB3.
We can see all the outlets that we have,
which correspond to the properties
in the script and the action,
which corresponds to the handler.
So if we wire these up,
connect the outlet field
to the first text field,
Second one.
You've never seen Interface Builder?
Did you guys just get here?
That's the third one.
And finally, the Convert action method
to the Convert button.
Lovely.
Save, build, and go.
[Transcript missing]
"$1.25, great.
25 simoleons,
I feel so rich." So there you go,
that works.
And the thing to note here is that
this is exactly the same steps
that we would go through in the
Objective-C tutorial or what we
would have done in Python or Ruby.
The interface builder
part is exactly the same.
It's not different like it
was in AppleScript Studio.
So how many Studio developers
have we got here?
A little show of hands?
Okay, a few people.
So the Studio developers
may be saying now,
"Okay, parity, that's nice and all,
but that code was longer than
what I had to write in Studio.
I'm not impressed." Fine.
We have access to all of Cocoa here.
So let's do the same currency converter,
but this time we're going
to use Cocoa Bindings.
Cocoa Bindings is a very nifty
feature which was introduced back
in Panther that lets Cocoa fill in a
lot of the controller code for you.
So here's the script that
we have that uses bindings.
And now it's a lot shorter.
And this is all model code.
Notice we still have three properties,
but they're not references
to text fields anymore.
They're just the numbers.
[Transcript missing]
So let's open the nib and do that.
So this time,
instead of using the Connections panel,
we're going to use the
Cocoa Bindings Inspector.
We've already got our model object,
and we've also got an object controller.
This is the Cocoa class that
does the controller code,
which we used to have to write by hand.
So if we pick the first
one of the text fields,
We can go to the Bindings pane here
and say this text field gets its value.
It is bound to the Object Controller and
with a keypath of Amount.
And now we'll do the same thing.
The second text field is bound to the
object controller's exchange rate.
And finally, the last one bound to total.
And the Connect button will wire
up the same way as we did before,
connect that to my
model's convert method.
OK, save, build, and go.
All right.
Chris Nebel, Barry Langdon-Lassagne Okay,
same numbers as before, 20 bucks,
simoleon 25 to the dollar, convert,
and there you go.
So currency converter now in, I think,
eight lines of code, not bad.
So now the studio people are saying, OK,
it's shorter,
but it's still just currency converter.
Try something hard like a table,
smart guy.
Let's do that.
You're in luck.
I have one right here.
How astonishing.
Tables are, of course, very useful.
Turn up in all sorts of situations.
They can also be fairly
complicated to code for.
But Cocoa Bindings makes
it relatively simple.
Let's take a look at the script.
Again, Bindings let us write
just the model code.
What we're doing here is kind
of an address book on the cheap.
It will be a table of
people -- first name,
last name, and e-mail.
And we're using just basic properties
to hold the first name and last name.
But then for the e-mail property,
we're using a function
to compute it on the fly.
We'll mash the first name and last
name together and go fetch the
e-mail address out of address book.
This is what AppleScript is good at,
is talking to other applications,
so it talks to address book.
And just in case this person
hasn't got an e-mail address,
it's wrapped in a try block that
will return nothing if it fails.
So that forms the basic
person model object.
The other object, my model,
is simply here to hold a list of people.
That's the people property.
And we've also got,
mostly to save us typing time,
an awake from nib method.
This will get called automatically
by Cocoa when we load the nib.
And again, it's just got straight
AppleScript in it as well.
Yep.
OK.
So this will simply grab some
people out of Address Book to
populate the table for us,
so we get to see
something when we launch.
Everything else happens
in Interface Builder.
So we've got the table already laid out,
and we've got my model instance there.
The first thing we need
is an array controller.
We saw an object controller before.
Cocoa also has a class to
manage an array of objects.
So the first thing we need to tell
the array is what it's an array of.
So if we go to the
You can tell it's going to be
managing an array of class MyPerson,
which matches the script
object that we defined first.
And we fill in the keys we're
going to be interested in.
This isn't strictly necessary,
but it saves us some typing later.
So first name, last name, and email.
Great.
So now we bind that array controller.
Where is it going to get its array from?
We bind that array controller.
Switch to the Bindings pane.
And we bind the content
array to my model.
And the people key,
which matches that people
property in the script.
Okay, so now the array controller
knows about the model.
Now we have to teach the table
about the array controller.
So we do this one column at a time.
Take the first column,
and its value is going to be bound to
the array controller and its first name,
keypath.
"Second column, similar,
bind to the array controller,
and this goes to the last name.
And last column, email.
And the fact that email is really
a function makes no difference
as far as Cocoa is concerned.
It doesn't distinguish between
a plain property and a function
that takes no arguments."
[Transcript missing]
And there it is.
It's already populated
out of our address book.
It's fetching the email.
If we click the plus button,
we'll get a new row.
And that in, you know,
about a page worth of code.
Not bad.
And ArrayController gets us
some extra behavior for free,
like sorting of columns.
We didn't have to write
any code to do that.
And it gets us some
additional behavior as well.
Let's take this one step further and do
something you really can't do in Studio.
We're going to add a search field.
We've never added Glue for
NSSearchField in Studio,
but hey, this is just Cocoa,
so we can do a search field.
So the first step, obviously,
is add a search field to the interface.
Drag that in.
And NSArrayController is so cool
that we're not going to have to
write any code to hook this up.
We're not going to have to
add anything to our script.
All this happens using bindings.
If we scroll down a bit,
we get to the Predicates section.
Search fields and array controllers know
about each other through predicates.
So we bind this to the array
controller and the predicate field.
Admittedly, this is a little code-like,
but the syntax is all
documented in NSPredicate.
We need first name contains dollar value.
Dollar value is simply whatever's
been typed into the search field.
Or last name contains value.
We don't want to annoy
people with case sensitivity,
so we'll put a little qualifier
on the contains operator there.
Cd means not case sensitive,
not diacritic sensitive either.
And that's it.
This is all done in the Nib.
If we build and run,
we should get our same table as before
and happily filter down to Larson.
Pretty simple.
It works.
Okay.
Thank
Back to slides, please.
So, summing up for Cocoa Bridges.
The basic point here is that you can
choose the language that works for you.
You are not obliged to use Objective-C,
you are not obliged to use Python,
you are not obliged to use Ruby,
or whatever.
Whatever it is that is
right for your project,
your personal preferences, whatever.
It's okay.
Bridge languages work great
for casual development,
in-house development, even shrink wrap.
There are people shipping
shrink wrap applications that
are actually built in Python.
And it's awesome for experimenting.
One of the great things about using an
interpreted language to run Cocoa is
that you often have an interpreter.
You can just type a line
and see what happens.
It's my favorite way to experiment
with new frameworks now.
The three that we've mentioned, Python,
Ruby, and AppleScript,
those are the ones that
are built into the system,
but there are others besides,
typically available as open source.
There are bridges for Perl,
there's a bridge for Lua, Common Lisp,
there are a couple of
dedicated languages,
Fscript and GNU,
which is kind of a scheme dialect.
Probably a bunch more
I don't even know about.
So, awesome stuff.
Try it out.
So that's Cocoa Bridging.
Now let's talk about
bridging to services,
specifically bridging to
scriptable applications.
Scriptable applications have been
around in Mac OS for a long time.
They actually date back to Mac OS 7.
If you are writing an
application yourself,
we highly encourage you
to make it scriptable.
There's a session tomorrow at 2
o'clock on doing precisely that.
I believe it's called
Making Your Application Scriptable.
And the traditional way you
control a scriptable application,
or at least the historic way,
is by using AppleScript.
AppleScript was designed specifically
to talk to scriptable applications.
It's very good at it.
But you're a real developer.
You're writing a real
application in Objective-C.
How do you do this?
There's nothing really magical
about NSAppleScript that lets you
control scriptable applications.
All it's really doing behind the scenes
is it's constructing Apple Events,
a kind of IPC protocol,
a little remote message send.
And that's what iTunes is
really paying attention to.
And Apple Events have a plain C API,
so really anyone can use them.
And there's even an Objective-C wrapper
for Apple Events called
NSAppleEventDescriptor.
So if you code using these,
then this is basically
as efficient as possible.
You're not taking any of the overhead
for the AppleScript interpreter.
It's just the message sends.
So very fast, very efficient.
Say you want to get the name of the
currently playing track in iTunes.
You know, lots of applications.
The basic point of using a
scriptable application is that you
can leverage other applications,
right?
You can get them to do features for you.
So an iTunes controller is
a fairly common example.
Say you want to get the name of the
currently playing track in iTunes.
NSAppleEventDescriptor, great.
All you have to write is this.
So what people actually do
is they write an AppleScript.
And they run it from within
their application using
the NSAppleScript class.
So it's obviously a lot simpler to write.
The thing is it doesn't work very well.
Because now you are taking the hit
for the AppleScript interpreter.
So you impose a bunch of extra time,
use a bunch of extra memory.
It doesn't integrate all
that well with Objective-C.
What we really want is just
an NSString eventually,
but that's not what we
get out of NSAppleScript.
We get something else,
actually another NSApple
event descriptor,
from which we have to extract a string.
So what we'd really like is something
that is simple to use like NSAppleScript,
ideally even simpler,
and yet has the performance
of NSAppleEventDescriptor.
And that's what Scripting
Bridge is all about.
Except this was introduced in Leopard,
and we're not calling it
Scripting Bridge anymore.
Scripting Bridge was a fine name as
long as we always thought scripting
meant application scripting,
which it kind of used to,
but obviously we're using
scripting for a lot more now,
a lot of different things.
So,
Scripting Bridge was a bit too confusing.
We're naming it a bit
more specifically now.
It's the Apple Event Bridge.
I'm probably going to screw this
up at least once while I'm talking.
Bear with me.
So, here's what it looks like.
First step is you generate
a header for the application
that you're interested in,
in this case, iTunes.
So this defines a bunch of classes.
[Transcript missing]
And if you happen to like Objective-C 2,
the property .syntax
works great with that too.
Even saves you two more characters.
And because this is simply
an Objective-C Cocoa service,
it works with bridged languages as well,
except that you don't have to
bother with the first two steps,
because you don't really need a
header and there's no link phase.
Here's what the same code
looks like in Python.
Again, get a reference to iTunes.
Print iTunes current track name.
And same thing again in Ruby.
And to show off something
a bit more complicated,
if I can get Barry back up here,
we'll do another demo.
So one of our evangelists
had an interesting problem,
that he's got his home stereo
hooked up to his iTunes library.
The thing is that the standard
infrared remote doesn't
really work very well for him,
because he's frequently
out of line of sight.
He's actually got speakers in lots
of different rooms of his house.
He's got speakers in the living room,
he's got speakers in the den,
speakers in the backyard by the jacuzzi,
speakers underwater in the jacuzzi,
whatever.
In the basement with the bowling alley.
Yeah, that too.
Is Matt here?
[Transcript missing]
He happens to know Ruby,
and Ruby has a nice package that lets
you write quick and dirty web servers.
So here's what some of
the code looks like.
So the web server package
is called Mongrel.
So it uses Mongrel on one end to
do all the webby kind of stuff.
And then it uses Scripting Bridge,
Apple Event Bridge,
on the other side to talk to iTunes.
There.
Yeah, we'll have to fix that in
the online version too.
It's spelt Scripting Bridge,
it's pronounced Apple Event Bridge.
So there's the includes.
One of the first things it does
as part of its initialization is
it gets a reference to iTunes,
similar to what we saw on the slides.
And then the various controls
on the web page that it presents
are hooked up to iTunes actions.
So, for instance,
here is the next button handler that when
you push the next button on the web page,
it simply tells iTunes,
go to the next track.
And if you're not already playing,
then start playing.
and there's even some eye
candy features in here.
There's a bit to go fetch the
album artwork from iTunes,
turn it into a JPEG and stick
that as part of the web page.
So let's see how this works.
I believe we have the
server already fired up.
Yep, it's running.
OK.
And we don't have an
iPhone projector here,
so we're actually going to
use the simulator for this.
If we go to Safari--
Here's our web page.
Press play to start iTunes.
Let's do that.
iTunes launches and starts playing.
[Transcript missing]
We can pause that.
If we skip to the next track,
it starts playing like
we saw in the code.
I absolutely love this song.
It's actually by a couple
of old friends of mine,
but we do not have time to
listen to the whole thing,
so pause again.
But it is available on iTunes.
Okay, thank you very much.
Oh, I think -- Oh, wait,
do we have one more thing?
I have to try this to
see if it works for real,
if I really can use this as a remote.
We'll see.
This is the part where I need demo gods.
Can you hear it?
Next song.
[Transcript missing]
So Apple Event Bridge.
Like I said,
the basic point here is make other
applications do your work for you.
If you need to send mail to something,
send an attachment,
you can tell mail to do that.
You need to file a photo,
tell iPhoto to do that.
There are entire applications
that have been built on top of
Excel or OmniGraffle or OmniOutline,
which is effectively a display engine.
And if you're going to do this,
if you're going to script
other applications,
do it efficiently.
If you're using built-in logic,
use Apple Event Bridge.
This is the fast way to do this.
NSAppleScript still has its place,
but its place is for running
user-supplied scripts,
stuff that is not built
into your application.
You don't know what it is at build time.
If it's built into your application,
use the Apple Event Bridge.
So how the heck does all this stuff work?
So the basic game with all of these is
that you've got two different runtimes,
which are not inherently compatible.
The game is to make each side think that
it's talking to more stuff just like it.
Nobody here but us chickens.
So Cocoa objects know how to
send Objective-C messages.
Python does not understand Objective-C.
This is where the Cocoa Bridge comes in.
The Cocoa Bridge will create these little
shells of Objective-C around the object.
So from the outside,
they look like Objective-C.
In reality, the message hits this.
It gets translated into something
that Python can understand.
And then going the other way,
It's basically the same thing.
The Cocoa objects get wrapped in
these crunchy little Python shells.
So they look like Python objects,
but they're really not.
The message gets
translated again going in.
So this presumes a fair
amount of introspectability
and dynamism in your runtime,
which fortunately Objective-C has,
and so do a lot of the
scripting languages.
So there are four basic
capabilities that you need.
And it all comes down to inspecting
existing stuff and creating new things.
So you need to be able
to do this to classes.
You need to be able to get a
list of all the classes that are
currently defined in the runtime.
The Objective-C interface for most of
this is defined in Objective-C runtime.h.
So, for instance,
getting a list of classes,
you use Objective-C get class list.
So you can find out what
all the classes are.
And then you need to construct
those shells for the Python objects.
You can create new classes in the
runtime just on the fly using allocate
class pair and register class pair.
So then when it comes time
to actually send messages,
it's the same kind of idea.
You need to be able to grab
a message and pick it apart.
What's the message exactly?
What are its parameters?
Where is it going?
and then be able to pass
it on to something else.
The basic mechanism for
this is forward invocation.
This is the message
forwarding system in Cocoa,
and it's actually used for lots of stuff,
not the least of which is NSProxy,
which things like distributed
objects are based on.
Core Data also uses this
kind of technique heavily.
And you can even go one step
further in Tiger and actually create
method implementations on the fly.
There's a library called libffi,
it's short for
Foreign Function Interface,
that lets you construct
arbitrary C functions on the fly.
They just look like regular
C function pointers,
you can call them just
like anything else.
And you can plug those into the object.
So you call this method,
it just turns into this function call.
And finally, you need to be able to
create new messages that,
okay, I got this Python thing coming in.
I need to turn that into
an Objective-C message.
There's an Objective-C interface
for doing this called NSInvocation.
That's kind of a nice high-level version.
Or you can go the grungy low-level
route with ObjcMessageSend.
So there's some interesting things you're
going to run into if you try to do this.
One is that Cocoa has a bunch of sort
of object machinery that it deals with,
which, say, the Python code is not
really expected to deal with.
This is stuff like message forwarding,
so messages like response to selector,
key value coding,
so you can get things like
value for undefined key,
key value observation,
which bindings is based on,
things like will change value for key.
So your bridge is going to need to pick
these up and handle them appropriately,
like there's stuff in the
AppleScript bridge to pick up value
for undefined key and turn that
into an AppleScript property access.
The next thing is that the
type information in the
runtime may not be enough.
The Objective-C runtime has a fairly
C-ish view of the runtime system.
So, for instance, Boolean.
As far as Objective-C is concerned,
bool is just a typedef for signed char.
It's just another integral type.
And that's not good
enough for some languages.
Like in Ruby,
all integers are considered true.
There's none of this C, zero is false,
everything else is true business.
Fortunately, there's metadata available.
There are bridge support files in
every system framework that describe
full metadata for all the APIs.
So you can find out that, oh,
this really was a Boolean here.
This is an object pointer.
What is an object pointer to?
You can get an exact type.
The Objective-C runtime
won't tell you that.
Next up, we talked about forward
invocation a little bit.
So you can do this
dynamically all the time,
but that can get slow if you're
sending an awful lot of messages.
So this is where libffi comes in.
If you get a message once,
you can do it dynamically the first time,
but then construct a real method
implementation using libffi.
And from that point on,
that particular method can be fast.
Core Data, I believe,
uses this technique now
to improve performance.
And finally, this one is a little tricky.
Obviously,
Cocoa has a whole set of basic types,
strings, arrays, that sort of thing.
Your scripting language probably
has most of these same types.
It definitely has a string.
And it's kind of nice if NSString turns
into just a regular scripting string,
so that way the scripting users don't
have to think of NSStrings as NSStrings.
What you can do,
and this presumes a lot of
control over the interpreter,
is you can actually build the
interpreter on top of foundations.
So the scripting string
just is an NSString.
There's a project called Mac Ruby,
you can go check this
out on Mac OS Forge,
which is doing precisely this with Ruby.
It's basing Ruby on top of foundation.
So a Ruby string is an NSString.
A Ruby array is an NSArray.
It even goes one step further and
uses Objective-C messaging for
all the Ruby messaging as well.
So all the bridging overhead,
it just goes away.
So it's extremely efficient.
Now, not surprisingly,
this is considered an advanced topic.
This is not for everybody.
That said, it is all public API,
and it is all documented.
There's no magic secret
sauce that only we know.
Anyone can do this.
And a lot of the bridges are open source,
so you can go look at how
other people have done this.
If you're interested in bridging to
some language that isn't on this list,
by all means, come and talk to us.
We can help out,
and we'd just like to know that you exist
so we can tell other people about it.
Summing up the whole thing,
if you're developing a
Mac OS X application,
you've got the next killer app,
you're just burning to write,
write using Cocoa.
This is where all of our attention goes.
This is where all the good stuff is.
This is where you get all
the good system services.
That said, write the code using the
language that works for you.
Objective-C, Python, Ruby, it's all good.
We are not in the business of
dictating what language you should use.
I should actually qualify that.
I forgot to do this earlier.
I said you can write whatever
language works for you.
That said, we do still recommend that you
learn Objective-C and ideally
that you learn it first.
There are two big reasons for this.
One is that all of the documentation
and a lot of the sample code
is written in Objective-C and
you'd like to be able to read
The other reason is a bit more subtle.
Cocoa was designed as
an Objective-C library.
It was not designed as a Python library
or a Ruby library or what have you.
And therefore,
it is following its own conventions.
It is not following the languages
of your favorite scripting language.
So if you expect it to behave
as if it's a native library,
you're just kind of setting
yourself up for pain.
A lot of people can, in fact,
learn both of these at the same time.
They can pick these apart,
keep them separate in their brains.
Some people can't.
Your mileage may vary.
Consider yourself warned.
You can extend your application
using scriptable applications.
Make other applications
do your work for you.
Like I said, use Mail to send mail,
iPhoto to file pictures,
use Excel to create charts for you,
et cetera.
If your favorite language
doesn't bridge to Cocoa,
you know, it's not on the system,
nobody's written a bridge for us yet,
Talk to us.
We may be able to hook you up
with someone who is interested.
Maybe you can write it yourself.
We'd love to have more bridges.
We'd love to have more
languages supported.
Here are the people to talk to.
Sal Segoyan is our
Product Marketing Manager.
John Montbriand is our DTS contact.
Sample code is, or will be,
real soon now,
I'm told it'll be up by tomorrow morning,
available on the developer site.
Both the Currency Converter example and
the iTunes Web example will be up there.
We have lab time on Friday.
That's our dedicated lab
time from 10:30 to 1:45.
Failing that,
come find us at various other sessions.
We'd be happy to help out.
Also,
I mentioned the Making Your Applications
Scriptable session.
That's tomorrow at 2:00.